---
layout: page
title: "19 Mar, 2014 SICP Note"
date: 2014-03-19 19:50
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

I got to keep reading SICP. Repicking the book recently from my
drawer, I decided to continue this article series. SICP tastes good,
and it brings me surprise everytime I read it again. Actually I read
much faster than the progress on taking notes here. Anyway, I'd to
record what I learned from the book.

----

Being lazy and tired on the cliché of eight queens problem and the
graphical
language before *Section 2.3*, I will not write programs as solutions
for the problems. (Okay, actually I just want to skip to the symbolic
language section, which is far more attracting.)

Starting from *Excercise 2.42*, exercise asks to write a function
`safe?` for the eight-queen puzzle, which checks whether a queen is
compatible with other queens on the board in the given place. This is
not difficult. We should take the conjunction of these three
conditions:

* no chess is there in the same row
* no chess is there in the upward diagonal
* no chess is there in the downward diagonal

Since we calculate the availability for each column, there will be no
conflict in the same column.


*Exercise 2.43*. This question is interesting. It asks to find out the
 reason why this code:

```scheme
(flatmap
  (lambda (new-row)
    (map (lambda (rest-of-queens)
	          (adjoin-position new-row k rest-of-queens))
         (queen-cols (- k 1))))
  (enumerate-interval 1 board-size))
```

appears evidently slower than the code:

```scheme
(flatmap
  (lambda (rest-of-queens)
     (map (lambda (new-row)
             (adjoin-position new-row k rest-of-queens))
          (enumerate-interval 1 board-size)))
  (queen-cols (- k 1)))
```
giving these two snippet function the same.

Well, what the inefficient one does is to enumerate all possible ways
to place the queens and filter the valid ones. The efficiency of this
algorithm is $O(8^N)$. However, the efficient way to do this is to
eliminate the number of wasted steps. For each step of the efficient
algorithm follows the reduced possibilities and therefore this part of
efficiency is be reduced to $O(N!)$, which is far more smaller than
the exponential.


The exercise 2.44 - 2.52 are boring so I'd just skip them. Tomorrow
I'd work on the symbolic data section, which is my favorite. <3
