---
layout: post
title: "Experience about contributing KDE projects"
date: 2012-12-31 17:55
comments: true
categories: journey
tags:
  - kde
---

It's the first time I am involved in contributing KDE, and I think
that's very wonderful experience for me.

The first task I claimed is convert the all class members in
calligra/kexi project to d-pointers. This task is not very hard to me
actually. Because that the source files and classes are so many, it
takes most of labors, and some experiences and ability to to cope with
exceptions. I've been leaving c++ for almost one year time, so totally
the most important thing I gained is to pick up c++ again. Further
more, I don't used to know to use d-pointers to reduce coupling, and now I
learnt it, which is really cool.

Then I've contributed with marble-globe task. The task is about adding
remote icon/image support for marble. I got known about the typical
structure of a KDE programs, and I'm feeling like to program Qt, which
is really powerful and handy. And then by the passion, I wrote the
required KML tag writers for marble, too. These are interesting for
me.

Totally speaking the greatest gain is the achievement of contributing
open source projects. This is biggest open source project I've been
involved in, since before I used to just collaborate opensource
project with small groups or individuals on github before. Those
hackers I met are really friendly. I'm very careless. I made a lot of
mistakes, and even didn't realize that. At those times, my mentor
always explained to me patiently & gently, that made feel embarrassed
when finally I knew that's my fault. And at the time, when I met
project-related problems that I can't solve and not able to be
abstracted to ask on stackoverflow, I sent emails to my mentors and
they explained the reason of the problem clearly and gave me guidance
to solve it. I can feel that the hackers in open source community are
glad to help those beginners like me, and that's really impressive for
me.

This is the first time & will be the last that I could attend Google
Code-In, but I will continue work on contributing open source
projects. I love the atmosphere in open source communities and  I
would like to get acquainted to more hackers. Good luck.

That's it, thanks to all.

