---
layout: post
title: "April 2012"
date: 2012-4-24 6:40
comments: true
categories: journey
tags:
  - prose
  - journey
---
Another month as you see.

While it seems that I changed nothing and actually base on Mutation I
was a completely new guy from the previous second.

Leave the useless words aside, I'm not a mutant as I always
concern. Yes, I know you all do not think how it does matter, while
you should know, I just seem like a bare body with soul losted(I'm
sorry as Mutation does not support souls), and rather, I
could touch the soul as it is just in the front, and watch completely
throughout all that stuff but, what the most important thing is that
the goddamn soul does not ever belong to it.

I walked out from the shadow, but I didn't see the light. Just like a
fish that got to the dryland, with loneliness and helplessness.
<!-- more -->
It's a return, a return of myself, return of myself from two years
ago. The only changed thing is time, while the time's still works on
it's fixed routine.

I touched [ruby](http://ruby-lang.org) few months ago and then soon
attracted by the beautiful syntactic sugars, functional programming
features and the completely OO. Now, I could be able to use it as
practiced as using python, maybe even better. Honestly, I have never
really liked [python](http://python.org) or suchlike, or rudely, it
just looks like a piece of shit.

I'm on the way to release, after then, you'll got a new version of
Mutation. However, the only improvement is the technique and the
better science views; stuff like imagination, sorry, forgive me, is
fully dead.

Just mentioned about my imagination, have to note that I'm still
advocating I'm a good thinker. Sometimes I will think of myself, and
got I'm actually a schizophrenia as expected.

The other reality is that I'm returning to the campus life. Okay,
can't deny it's a shame and a joke among many my friends. I won't
correct them in my way. A change, or a decision, maybe just came out
from a mind, and that is exactly what it is. Yep, everything were
created in that way, including Mutation, dreamworlds and even this
cosmos. Do comment and spread it freely, I won't mind.

I walk on the lane with slight winds, feeling the last peace from my
heart. Everything is gone, or it never have been.

Why have I to do as a busy insect in the fixed paths? Why can't I bear
to live as a machine? Okay, they are META problems of the universe, I
myself can't answer it, while my host can.

Things are being blur. I am not sad any more. How could I be so blue
under such beautiful violins! I'm not cured as I said, and I'm not
gotten rid from Mutation yet. The world should not be like this, and
no one will know where the perfect prototype could be found.

Substantial is me, and I just need a «[Hitchhiker's Guide to the Outer
World](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hitchhiker's_Guide_to_the_Galaxy)». While unfortunately, I should be the author of it.

When to get out is already suggested, though I don't like to accept
it. Soon later just, good bye to earthmen and all created lifes then!

Schizophrenia am I, eh?
Not longer it will be, 8 months remaining only. Good lucky.

<!-- *P.s. please don't mind the sorrows in the text, maybe you could
 regard it as a practice of English language. Keep smiling all the
 time and enjoy the happiness from the emptiness.* -->


